Assignment: Exploring Emerging Technologies
Emerging Technologies that are impacting both the education sector and the IT industry.

Artificial Intelligence (Machine learning)
        AI has had a significant impact on education and the IT industry. AI can produce high-quality, creative content, including text, images, videos, and music. AI applications like ChatGPT, DALL-E, Canva, Photoshop, and Meta Facebook help to generate more creative content and reduce costs, enabling small businesses and individuals to create more automated and efficient use of the content at scale. AI in education helps teachers and students to receive individualized instruction, while tutoring programs like Cogni offer customized, adaptable lesson plans for educators and students. AI contributes to automated grading solutions that guarantee student rating uniformity. The IT sector uses AI tools to improve cybersecurity and analyze incoming threats like IBM QRadar SIEM. AI can also help in allowing automated maintenance and speed up software development.

Internet of Things (IoT)
	IoT supports the integration of sensors and devices to manage resources and services efficiently. It also increases efficiency in automating tasks and resources, improving the safety and security for anomalies and intervention. In education, IoT can optimize temperature and lighting quality and enhance the learning experience or interactive learning. Examples are digital whiteboards, Smart cards, Tablets/Laptops, smart TVs and Projectors, and Air conditioning. IoT sensors can build smart buildings like GPS, RFID, and security systems and remotely control all assets, movements, and systems. LPWAN (Low Power Wide Area Network) enables data between IT and OT systems. SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition)and PLC (Programmable Logic Controller) systems are operational technologies for collecting and analyzing data from sensors and devices.

Augmented reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR)
	VR and AR are used to create more immersive and interactive experiences in both the virtual and physical worlds. As it also facilitates interactive learning and experience, improving training helps be more engaged in visuals and designs in all fields, especially IT industries and education sectors. VR and AR allow students to immerse in VR events such as historical sites, language learning, and field training to create a safe space and environment while they develop their practical skills. VR and AR also allow IT professionals to learn new skills and practice in controlled environments. It also helps facilitate work collaborations such as VR IT Training for creating online environments for developing communication skills, Industrial Troubleshooting, and Osso VR for surgical medical training.

Blockchain
	Blockchain is a new application in developing cryptocurrencies for transparent record transactions. It enables transactions to protect data from unauthorized access and monitor data Integrity for transactions and events. In education, Blockchain helps secure Credentials, Data Security, and Privacy, as well as funding educational resources. Like Gamification, The Disciplina platform for maintaining a unified register of academic achievements. Woolf for higher education in paying courses. In the IT industry, Blockchain encourages decentralized applications to reduce reliance on centralized servers and secure the Supply chain management in operating peer-to-peer networks, such as Amazon, Shopee Retail, Top-up games, and Hyperledger Fabric.

Cloud computing
	Cloud computing has revolutionized IT fields by providing on-demand access to computing resources on individual and business scales, such as servers, storage, and software over the Internet. In education, cloud computing encourages online learning platforms with open-source access and resources. It also enhances student collaboration and data management of files like LMS (Learning Management Systems) and Zoom. IT fields provide on-demand services and tools for IT infrastructure (Infrastructure-as-a-Service/IaaS) and software installation (Software-as-a-Service/SaaS). It also provides tools for processing Big Data sets and enhances data decision-making. Some specific examples are IBM Cloud, Azure, Google Drive, Gmail, and any Google platforms.

5G technology
	5G became a new trend as it provides faster speed, low latency, and greater capacity for wireless communication. It offers the latest Mobile broadband for internet access for vehicles, IoT, and some tailored virtual network slicing. Although not extensively going on in education, it enhances remote learning and supports VR, AR, and robotics. It also enhances seamless connectivity in online learning, especially in rural areas. In IT fields, it improves Automation for Industries and vehicles, such as  Drones, Smart Ambulances, Autonomous Constructions, laptops, and Gadgets that support 5G-core installations.

Quantum computing
        Quantum computing is a future new technology that can revolutionize IT and education. These quantum mechanics are exponentially faster than specific computers. Its primary goal is to perform calculations that are impossible for classic computers. It is an advanced Machine learning and more powerful AI model. It shapes Advanced Research development in physics, chemistry, and science. It can lead to new learning paradigms potentially revolutionizing data-driven research. It can accelerate drug discovery and healthcare services and improve AI and cybersecurity. Some existing examples are IBM Quantum, which provides access to quantum processors, software tools, and educational resources, and K-12 Digital Literacy, preparing students for the use of quantum technologies.

Sources:
https://www.simplilearn.com/top-technology-trends-and-jobs-article
https://www.instructure.com/resources/blog/6-emerging-technologies-education
